README.md, before:

# nix-config: nix configuration for mac machines

## Table of Contents

- [Layout](#layout)
- [Install](#install)
  - [1. Install dependencies](#1-install-dependencies)
  - [2. Install nix](#2-install-nix)
  - [3. Install keys](#3-install-keys)
  - [4. Clone this repository](#4-clone-this-repository)
  - [5. Make apps executable](#5-make-apps-executable)
  - [6. Fix preps](#6-fix-preps)
  - [7. Build the configuration](#7-build-the-configuration)
  - [8. Deploy the configuration](#8-deploy-the-configuration)
  - [9. Manual setups and configurations]()

## Layout

```
.
├─┬─ brew              # Top folder with homebrew configuration
│ ├── brews.nix        # List of homebrew brews
│ ├── casks.nix        # List of homebrew casks
│ └── default.nix
├─┬─ darwin            # Top folder with nix-darwin configuration
│ ├─┬─ modules         # Folder with all the module configurations
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ overlays        # Folder with nix-darwin extensions and overlays
│ │ └─ ...
│ └── default.nix
├─┬─ home              # Top folder with home-manager configuration
│ ├─┬─ files           # Folder with all the (template) files used
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ modules         # Folder with all the module configurations
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ overlays        # Folder with nix-darwin extensions and overlays
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ packages        # Folder with configuration for packages to be installed
│ │ └─ ...
│ └── default.nix
├─┬─ nixpkgs           # Top folder for all nixpkgs configurations
│ ├─┬─ overlays        # Folder for all the nixpkgs overlays and extentions
│ │ └─ ...
│ └── ...
├── flake.nix          # The flake file for this repo
└── README.md          # This file
```

## Install

### 1. Install dependencies

```sh
xcode-select --install
```

### 2. Install nix

We'll be using the [Determinate Systems installer](https://zero-to-nix.com/concepts/nix-installer).

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Make sure you answer _No_ when the installer asks if you want to install Determinate Nix, as it [conflicts with nix-darwin](https://github.com/dustinlyons/nixos-config/issues/146).

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install
```

### 3. Install keys

The configuration keeps secrets secret with agenix. In order to deploy the secrets (and to clone this repository over ssh), make sure the necessary keys are installed:

```sh
curl -Lo ssh.zip https://github.com/pjan/archives/raw/refs/heads/main/ssh.zip && unzip ssh.zip -d ~/.ssh && rm ssh.zip
```

### 4. Clone this repository and configure with variables

With all the necessary keys installed, you can now clone this repository. Change directory to where you want to store the repo locally, and clone it:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:pjan/nix-config.git
```

Once the repo is cloned, edit the `config.nix` file with the variables you want set.

### 5. Make apps executable

Change directory to the repo, and make all

```sh
find apps/$(uname -m | sed 's/arm64/aarch64/')-darwin -type f \( -name apply -o -name build -o -name build-switch -o -name rollback \) -exec chmod +x {} \;
```

### 6. Fix preps

```sh
sudo rm ~/.config
```

### 7. Build the configuration

You can ensure the build works before deploying the configuration. To do so, execute:

```sh
nix run .#build
```

### 8. Deploy the configuration

Finally, update the system by deploying the configuration:

```sh
nix run .#build-switch
```

### 9. Manual setups and configurations

Some of the apps that have been installed require to be started, get permissions granted and/or configured manually.

Configure NPM so the global install works

```sh
npm set prefix ~/.local/lib
```

- iterm2: preferences > settings > load settings from `~/.config/iterm2/`, saving changes manually (but don't press save)
- App Store: Download apps
- 1password: login, enable command line cli
- Chrome: login
- ExpressVPN (vpn): login
- Hyperkey (a hyperkey): config, start at login
- Ice (menu bar manager): config, start at login
- Stats (menu bar stats): start at login
- Alfred (app launcher): license, install automation tasks, replace default spotlight with alfred, theme, start at login, workflows
- Rectangle pro (tiling window manager): license, start at login
- Rocket (emoji expansion): start at login
- Syncthing: On synthing bookmark in chrome - configure by adding folders and devices
- Tailscale (vpn & networking): login
- Tidal: login

Alfred workflow for expressvpn

```sh
npm install --global alfred-expressvpn
```

## Updating the configuration

## Secrets

Commit message:

update app scripts and readme

README.md, after:

# nix-config: nix configuration for mac machines

## Table of Contents

- [Layout](#layout)
- [Install](#install)
  - [1. Install dependencies](#1-install-dependencies)
  - [2. Install nix](#2-install-nix)
  - [3. Install keys](#3-install-keys)
  - [4. Clone this repository](#4-clone-this-repository)
  - [5. Make apps executable](#5-make-apps-executable)
  - [6. Fix preps](#6-fix-preps)
  - [7. Build the configuration](#7-build-the-configuration)
  - [8. Deploy the configuration](#8-deploy-the-configuration)
  - [9. Manual setups and configurations]()

## Layout

```
.
├─┬─ brew              # Top folder with homebrew configuration
│ ├── brews.nix        # List of homebrew brews
│ ├── casks.nix        # List of homebrew casks
│ └── default.nix
├─┬─ darwin            # Top folder with nix-darwin configuration
│ ├─┬─ modules         # Folder with all the module configurations
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ overlays        # Folder with nix-darwin extensions and overlays
│ │ └─ ...
│ └── default.nix
├─┬─ home              # Top folder with home-manager configuration
│ ├─┬─ files           # Folder with all the (template) files used
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ modules         # Folder with all the module configurations
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ overlays        # Folder with nix-darwin extensions and overlays
│ │ └─ ...
│ ├─┬─ packages        # Folder with configuration for packages to be installed
│ │ └─ ...
│ └── default.nix
├─┬─ nixpkgs           # Top folder for all nixpkgs configurations
│ ├─┬─ overlays        # Folder for all the nixpkgs overlays and extentions
│ │ └─ ...
│ └── ...
├── flake.nix          # The flake file for this repo
└── README.md          # This file
```

## Install

### 1. Install dependencies

```sh
xcode-select --install
```

### 2. Install nix

We'll be using the [Determinate Systems installer](https://zero-to-nix.com/concepts/nix-installer).

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> Make sure you answer _No_ when the installer asks if you want to install Determinate Nix, as it [conflicts with nix-darwin](https://github.com/dustinlyons/nixos-config/issues/146).

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf -L https://install.determinate.systems/nix | sh -s -- install
```

### 3. Install keys

The configuration keeps secrets secret with agenix. In order to deploy the secrets (and to clone this repository over ssh), make sure the necessary keys are installed:

```sh
curl -Lo ssh.zip https://github.com/pjan/archives/raw/refs/heads/main/ssh.zip && unzip ssh.zip -d ~/.ssh && rm ssh.zip
```

### 4. Clone this repository and configure with variables

With all the necessary keys installed, you can now clone this repository. Change directory to where you want to store the repo locally, and clone it:

```sh
git clone git@github.com:pjan/nix-config.git
```

Once the repo is cloned, change directory into it, and edit the `config.nix` file with the variables you want set.

```sh
cd nix-config && vi ./config.nix
```

You don't want those changes to be tracked or committed to the repo, which you can do by updating the repo index to assume no changes ever happen to the file

```sh
git update-index --assume-unchanged ./config.nix
```

### 5. Make apps executable

Change directory to the repo, and make all

```sh
find apps/$(uname -m | sed 's/arm64/aarch64/')-darwin -type f \( -name apply -o -name build -o -name build-switch -o -name rollback \) -exec chmod +x {} \;
```

### 6. Fix preps

```sh
sudo rm ~/.config && mkdir ~/.config
```

### 7. Build the configuration

You can ensure the build works before deploying the configuration. To do so, execute:

```sh
nix run .#build
```

### 8. Deploy the configuration

Finally, update the system by deploying the configuration:

```sh
nix run .#build-switch
```

### 9. Manual setups and configurations

Some of the apps that have been installed require to be started, get permissions granted and/or configured manually.

Configure NPM so the global install works

```sh
npm set prefix ~/.local/lib
```

- iterm2: preferences > settings > load settings from `~/.config/iterm2/`, saving changes manually (but don't press save)
- App Store: Download apps
- 1password: login, enable command line cli
- Chrome: login
- ExpressVPN (vpn): login
- Hyperkey (a hyperkey): config, start at login
- Ice (menu bar manager): config, start at login
- Stats (menu bar stats): start at login
- Alfred (app launcher): license, install automation tasks, replace default spotlight with alfred, theme, start at login, workflows
- Rectangle pro (tiling window manager): license, start at login
- Rocket (emoji expansion): start at login
- Syncthing: On synthing bookmark in chrome - configure by adding folders and devices
- Tailscale (vpn & networking): login
- Tidal: login

Alfred workflow for expressvpn

```sh
npm install --global alfred-expressvpn
```

## Updating the configuration

## Secrets
